README.md, before:

# pits

![gradle workflow](https://github.com/vkremianskii/pits/actions/workflows/gradle.yml/badge.svg)

Open-pit mining system – exercise in software engineering.

**Disclaimer**: pits is not intended for use in production. It is a personal project with a goal to practice and showcase my skills.

## Business Processes

### Haul Cycles

![State diagram](doc/haul-cycles.jpg)

## Architecture

![Component diagram](doc/components.jpg)

|Service|Purpose|Implemented|Dependencies|
|-|-|-|-|
|Registry|- Tracks lists of entities (equipment, locations)|:heavy_check_mark:|- PostgreSQL<br>- RabbitMQ|
|Processes|- Tracks historical data (e.g., equipment positions)<br>- Supervises business processes (e.g., haul cycles)|:heavy_check_mark:|- PostgreSQL<br>- RabbitMQ<br>- Registry|
|Communicator|- Talks to mobile equipment (e.g., trucks)|:heavy_check_mark:|- RabbitMQ<br>- Registry|
|Web App|- UI for mine personnel|:x:|- Registry<br>- Processes|
|Mobile Equipment|- On-board computer software|:x:|- Communicator|

## Technologies

- Java 17
- Spring Boot 2
- jOOQ
- Flyway
- gRPC
- Swing
- Gradle
- PostgreSQL
- RabbitMQ
- Docker

## Installation

- `docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml build registry processes communicator`
- `docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d`

|Service|Port|Protocol|
|-|-|-|
|PostgreSQL|5432|TCP|
|RabbitMQ|5672,15672|TCP,HTTP|
|Registry|8080|HTTP|
|Processes|8081|HTTP|
|Communicator|8082,8083|HTTP,gRPC|
|Adminer|8090|HTTP|

Commit message:

Describe haul cycle BP implementation in README.md
[ci skip]

README.md, after:

# pits

![gradle workflow](https://github.com/vkremianskii/pits/actions/workflows/gradle.yml/badge.svg)

Open-pit mining system – exercise in software engineering.

**Disclaimer**: pits is not intended for use in production. It is a personal project with a goal to practice and showcase my skills.

## Business Processes

### Haul Cycles

![State diagram](doc/haul-cycles.jpg)

#### Implementation

- Changes in equipment position and truck payload are persisted to *processes* database in real-time
- Every N seconds, *processes* runs [HaulCycleJob](processes/src/main/java/com/github/vkremianskii/pits/processes/job/HaulCycleJob.java), which computes haul cycles for every truck
- [HaulCycleService](processes/src/main/java/com/github/vkremianskii/pits/processes/logic/HaulCycleService.java) replays recorded events in a state machine, starting from the last persisted haul cycle
- After truck haul cycles are computed, they are persisted to *processes* database

## Architecture

![Component diagram](doc/components.jpg)

|Service|Purpose|Implemented|Dependencies|
|-|-|-|-|
|Registry|- Tracks lists of entities (equipment, locations)|:heavy_check_mark:|- PostgreSQL<br>- RabbitMQ|
|Processes|- Tracks historical data (e.g., equipment positions)<br>- Supervises business processes (e.g., haul cycles)|:heavy_check_mark:|- PostgreSQL<br>- RabbitMQ<br>- Registry|
|Communicator|- Talks to mobile equipment (e.g., trucks)|:heavy_check_mark:|- RabbitMQ<br>- Registry|
|Web App|- UI for mine personnel|:x:|- Registry<br>- Processes|
|Mobile Equipment|- On-board computer software|:x:|- Communicator|

## Technologies

- Java 17
- Spring Boot 2
- jOOQ
- Flyway
- gRPC
- Swing
- Gradle
- PostgreSQL
- RabbitMQ
- Docker

## Installation

- `docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml build registry processes communicator`
- `docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d`

|Service|Port|Protocol|
|-|-|-|
|PostgreSQL|5432|TCP|
|RabbitMQ|5672,15672|TCP,HTTP|
|Registry|8080|HTTP|
|Processes|8081|HTTP|
|Communicator|8082,8083|HTTP,gRPC|
|Adminer|8090|HTTP|
